In this video, we're going to be
using the Select by Attributes
tool to see how many of our
sighting points occurred in each
type of environment.
So the first thing we need to
make sure is that none of our
data is already selected.
So we can go into the Selection
section of the Map tab and click
on this Clear button here.
And now we're going to select
our sighting points, so just
make sure those are highlighted
in our contents.
And we're going to click on the
Select by Attributes button
which is going to bring up this
window.
And so in the input row we want
this to be our sighting points
as this is the layer that we're
selecting.
You can go on the drop down box
and choose this if you don't
have it already.
Our selection type is going to
be a new selection and now we
need to add our clause for our
selection.
So this is different to the
Select by location tool as we're
not selecting our data based on
the location of another layer,
we're selecting our data based
on the attributes or the table
information of that actual
layer.
So we need to hit the Add clause
button and in this box here we
can choose what column in our
data layer we want to select by.
So we want to choose the
environment column we want it to
be where it's equal to.
And now we can choose the type
of environment.
So we'll start off choosing Farm
in this video and we can hit
apply.
And now this is going to select
our data based on all the points
that occurred within farm
environment.
And now if we hit OK, we can see
on our map that the points that
occurred within farm have been
selected and they're
highlighted.
So we can see which points there
they are.
And now we can right click on
our points layer, open up the
attribute table and we can see
at the bottom here that ten of
our rows, ten of our points have
been selected.
We can click on the button with
the blue highlighted rows to see
all the selected points and so
we know that 10 sighting points
occurred in farmland.
So now have a go at doing the
same for the other environment
types and writing down how many
occurred in each environment.